Okay, so this general? So this general, General
Vogel, who was commanding at Camp at the San Diego
area, was going to go to Parris Island. He said, do I
want to go along? I said, no, I can't go that far
back. There ain't no war at Parris Island. I'm
going to stick here. So it wasn't 24 hours that I was
ordered to sing back. assigned to the staff of the
commanding officer of Pacific Fleet Sing Pack.
And was that in Hawaii? In Hawaii. So then I was
assigned to the...
Let me get my own pen for this shit. Maybe it'll make
a note for you.
All right. And I organized a battalion there in
Pearl Harbor and participated in the assault on
Guam. Now... Tell me about that.
Well, I just had a battalion in the assault on Guam.
That was it. And when it was secured, then we got to
be the island command. See? And my command, that
same general there ran the whole island. During
the assault, you commanded a battalion. The
battalion went ashore. Yeah, it went ashore, but
it was a headquartered battalion. We just had
outpost skirmishes around.
So you weren't on the frontal assault? Yes, we
were. Not the frontal assault, no. As soon as they
secured the beachhead, then you went ashore? No,
we hadn't been secured yet. They were still
fighting when I went ashore.
Did that one say Guam? Wait a minute.
All right. I'll just read you the part you want to
hear. Okay, fine.
Colonel Baraka landed with the assault units in
initial landing with Guam, with 5th Corps, and
continued in that status until the enemy, until
the enemy and mortar and artillery fire at Agate
landing area at our first command post in the
vicinity of Delvin. Carrying out military
assignments, he came under heavy sniper fire on
the 25th of July, 1944, and he was on duty
reconnoitering the location for a forward
command post which duty he performed on the
intense enemy sniper and small-arm fire. Again,
at PD about this same period, Colonel Baraka was on
the enemy sniper fire from the Japanese forces who
had been bypassed by our troops or who had
infiltrated into our position. Establishing our
CP at the base of Mount Tenya, Colonel Baraka and
his unit came on the enemy grenade and fire when he
commanded his fifth caliber machine gun crew and
wiped out the enemy detachment. That was my
combat.
You got it all? They did get it? Sure.
All right. That was it. When they give you these
citations, they don't lie, see? But that
citation, that's how they had them. advanced me to
Brigadier on the retired list. Oh, it did? Sure. It
says so there. So that was one of the main reasons
for Brigadier, for your promotion. Oh, hell, I was
going to be made Brigadier, maybe. I was number
five, number seven on the list of colonels. I could
have made it, but you know what I mean. I'm not a
politician. I knew I had that record, and I knew
what the law was. When I had to retire, I knew they
had to promote me. I didn't have a bad record. If I'd
had a bad record, I wouldn't have done anything.
All right, now we're coming from that. Now we're on
Guam. Now, here's something I don't like to write
about. In the middle of one morning, along about 4
o'clock, I was relieved of my battalion to quell a
riot, which was supposed to have happened. in the
city of a canyon where, at some prior time, some
seabee had killed one of the black Navy troops over
that, over the embarkation area. It was a black and
tan outfit where they unloaded ships on, oh
hell, I can't call the name. Landing ships?
Transports? No, no, no, no, no. It's a hollow big
piece of metal. You link them together. Christ, I
can't. I'm too old.
Anyhow, when you can't get up on the beach to unload
your ships, you put these things together.
They're made out of iron. Sure, they're like
runways. Oh, what the hell you call them? I can't
think of the word. Anyhow, this outfit was from
there. They were Seabees. Huh? They were Seabees?
No, they weren't Seabees. They were Navy. They
were Navy. But the Seabees were also on the island.
And were all the navies, were all they black or were
they integrated or what? Oh, the navy wasn't
integrated fully yet. Anyhow, some of these
people got over on this island who had been in the
same outfit over on Siopan that had killed a navy
nurse and raped her dead body. And killed a
lieutenant in the navy who went there to retrieve
her body. Some of these people came from that
outfit. Some of the Seabees did? Some of these Navy
people did. So they decided to come in on a Ganya and
gonna shoot up a Ganya because one of these
Seabees, one night in a thatched hut, was gonna
come in and visit. And the Seabee said, told him he
wasn't invited there. About that time this Navy
Black Navy man threw a keyboard knife at him and
about that time the CB reached in the top of his
thatch hut and filled him with his carbine filled
him with a hole. I knew nothing about that because
that happened while I'm still a battalion
commander. But anyhow, the Provo Marshal at the
time was drunk. My commanding officer was very
impatient, so he was looking for his old pro
marshal from back in Samoa, and his attorney
generally trusted hands, so I had the job. So I
rushed down into a canyon and got ahold of one
platoon of the military police, and we flanked
these people. The trucks came in there, 20 trucks,
and they were loaded. They had hand grenades, they
had tear gas, they had automatics and everything,
and we flanked them with Tommy guns, and we didn't,
we had 200 of them, and we didn't have to fire a shot.
So then we put these people into a stockade, and
later on they would try to riot and rock, and Mrs.
Roseville turned them all loose. And at that
hearing,
a fellow named White, who was the head man of the
National Association of Advanced Recovered
People, asked to be counseled for the accused on
the Board of Investigations. It was granted to
him. And of course, as I say, they were all
convicted. But when they got back to the United
States, they were turned loose. Convicted of
rioting? They were all convicted of rioting?
Yeah, riot and rioting. Was there a lot of racial
tension? Or was this the only incident? Only
certain incidents. When the committee came down
from Washington to ask me about it, about whether
there was any racial segregation and so forth and
so on like that. I said, I didn't intimidate. I
said, I didn't know. I haven't seen any of it. Well,
they said, here you got a boatswain killed at a
canteen for Black Navy people and Black Army
people.
I said, what did you do about this boatswain
killing this man? I says, I read the report and I
freed him. Why? I says, upon investigation, I
found out that this was a black Red Cross woman. He
was worried when he was warned to leave her alone
and leave her alone. And when he went to put him
under arrest, this black woman said she didn't
come down there to be a whore. She came down there to
be a Red Cross woman. And, uh... He broke arrest,
and he fired on him. And I says, then again, at the
foot of Mount Tanyar, some of these people held up
this bus taking this woman to the Red Cross
compound. And another Black Navy boatman who was
in charge, he fired on him. Kill him? I don't know.
There's no report of being killed. So then you say
there's no... That's not the word. Not
integration.
I don't know when you feel... Prejudice?
Prejudice. That's the word. I don't know. I don't
know prejudice. I know anything about it. So in
that committee, there was a
two-and-a-half-striped black man, and there was
this great football player by the name of Pollard,
and there was also another black congressman And I
understand later on... They all came out from
Washington, D.C.? That's right, to
investigate... This incident? Yeah. No, just in
general. Oh, in general. Oh, okay. Yeah, in
general. Okay. So I understand they went up and
told that flag secretary, that Admiral Nimitz's
staff, that redneck down there. Called me a
redneck. Said they didn't get much satisfaction
out of him. Out of you. That's right. All right.
Now... But did you think of yourself as a redneck?
Huh? Did you agree with them, what they said? Well,
sure. I didn't give them too much information. I
told them the truth. I could back up everything I
told them with my record. I had 47 people in my
headquarters as a Provo Marshal. It wasn't no
bullshit outfit.
Here's a picture of it. I called it Leary Junction.
The Admiral was named Leary. at this road. He was
taking a prisoner, and this is my headquarters in,
what's the name, out of that we ran five stockades
of Japanese. We had 30,000 Japanese prisoners on
there. I had the Navy, I had the Navy brig, and I had
the Marine Corps brig, and I had all the stockades
of Japanese. That was all part of the job as Provo
Marshal, plus policing the roads. Policing the
docks. I had control of the rodents. I had to see if
they had rat guards when the ship landed. To keep
the rats coming, because we had a program of
rodents on the beach. That was all. The roads. The
building of roads with asphalt. The moving of
asphalt. The moving of ammunition. The moving of
troops. The moving of... The native personnel,
that all came under the Provo Marshal. Okay, so you
were in charge of all of those things? That's
right. So in order to do that, I had, as I say here, I
had one regiment of military policemen. Luckily,
I trained one battalion back in Pearl Harbor. That
was one of them out of Nucleus. But they only had
rifle specs. They were not schooled as military
police. We had to school them. Then I had two
battalions of army from Fort... Acosta, Wyoming.
They were good. They were better than the Marines.
They did all my narcotic work. And they did all that
because that time a lot of dope was coming in from
China and places like that. Really? That's right.
Did you have a drug problem on the island? But these
people stopped the drug problem. What kind of
drugs? I guess cocaine, morphine, stuff they use
up in China. And these people came in and stopped
the drug problems? They assisted in it. There's
a...
Shit, we could talk here two years about this damn
thing. That's why I was putting things on the road
there as the...
Every time we get a Marine killed, you see, we put
one of them signs up to try to keep him from...
There's a pro, there he is, there's a son of a bitch.
Here's when I had the battalion, Margaret Chase
came down from Maine. Really? Into my command
post, and the shooting hadn't stopped yet. No
kidding? That's right. That's who she is.
Senator. There's the old Olympia, was in the
Spanish-American War, which came down there as a
tender carrying ammunition.
There's a flight mess when we were bringing back
some wounded. There's raising the flag on Guam.
There's my army liaison in my headquarters.
How many of your officers on your staff are
lawyers? Three of them. And how many officers on
your staff? 47.
And how many men in your command? Well, my command,
my command was this regimental military
policeman and the two battalions of army. Okay.
There's the old goat right there. Mm-hmm. We'd
take some Japanese Britain and I wouldn't. We got
these off a submarine. Mm-hmm.
I said, Jesus Christ, I got more damn material
here. But tell me about your prisoners. All right,
we're going to finish now. Tell me about the
Japanese prisoners. Okay.
We took the Japanese, you know, when we landed
there, we They were all mixed up with Chemorins.
The island of Saipan is just across, and it's the
same nationality. And these people have been
going back and forth through the years. After
the assault was over, it was my job to get those
civilians out of there. That is, we let them stay
there until they were all filtered out. Well, in
order to do that, we had to have the G2 people take
care of that. We had people, Marines could speak
Japanese. Incidentally, they had a school back in
Samoa that taught Japanese and English. I can tell
you a lot of stuff, but anyhow.
So, we had these different stockades. And as
they'd bring these prisoners in, of course,
They'd interrogate them and so forth for the G2
people so they'd get the word out to the people in
the field how many more Japs there was. Remember,
we got to show you, we were getting in Japs there
even after I left Guam, many years after that.
Anyhow, I
had no trouble with the Japanese prisoners
themselves. because I had to have one stockade for
Japanese officers. They didn't want to work. If
you worked, I'd give you 1,200 calories of food a
day. If you didn't, I'd lessen the calories down.
We formed these people out each day to different
divisions. The third division, the brigades, the
army, and the Navy and any all the troops who were
stationed on the island. We'd portion out a
certain many of Japanese prisoners. They'd take
and work them and feed them on their own command and
bring them back in in the evenings. Were they
pretty good workers? We all had to work them. Sure
they were good workers. They all worked. But one
time we had a very thing happen. We had a whole
medical battalion from Iwo of Japanese and Some
naval doctors thought it would be a good idea for
the people to have these Japanese doctors look
after the Japanese. So I agreed to all that. The
first thing you know, 90% of the Japanese are on
sick report. so they wouldn't have to wait. So I
changed that. I put a sick call at 3 o'clock in the
morning and immediately there was no more
problems.
Because everybody depended on the Japanese. Back
in the back area, you take a division that's been up
in combat, come back to the back area to rest. There
was a lot of work the police and these Japs could do,
and they did it. And we let the Red Cross use them. I
let them use them until I went by there one day and
made an inspection. They had them sitting down
there and tea with them, which was against the
rules. So no more, they didn't get any more
prisoners. But the 20th Air Force got them, the
B-29 field got them, and we got them all. So they do
manual labor? Yeah, yeah. Then we had two trucks
going around the island picking up cans and things
like that because Admiral Nimitz wanted the
island cleaned up. I'll give you, I think I, man, I
don't know. Was there a lot of hatred? A lot of what?
Hatred? No. I only had one trouble one time. I
didn't have any trouble. I was allowed under the
Articles of War just so much. Well, I had all those
prisoners, and it was impossible to give them,
give each one of them a pair of shoes or give them
this and this and the other. So what I did, I saved
the shoes for the Marines and just cut a piece of
wood They made sandals out of wood and a string, and
that was it. They were useless, and everybody was
happy. But everything went along all right until I
ran into a psychological warfare officer from the
University of Chicago, a two-and-a-half
strapper, and he complained about this incident,
because I'm about to tell you. My commanding
general told me to carry out the Articles of War as
far as it was practical. He also told me to use my own
judgment in any matters that arise. The article of
war says you don't parade the prisoners after
dark. I got a signal from the G2 staff FMF pack that
all the G2s of the six divisions were coming in to
Guam and wanted to check the stockade.
It was way after dark when the lieutenant called
me, and I ordered him to parade the prisoners.
There was one officer, the head of the prison,
named by Colonel Mac Pate, who later got to be
commandant of the Marine Corps, whose father was a
classmate of one of these naval officers, a Navy
captain, who was taken prisoner and whipped that
ass down to Guam naked. Anyhow, he had been
repatriated, and he wrote back. So this officer
went in there, this Colonel Pate, who was the head
of this G-2 team, and it was after dark. And I asked
him, he says, did you ever think that a lot of us like
to cut your down throat? And he bowed. And he says,
he called for a certain Jap by the name of Shimizu.
So the sergeant said, Shimizu, front and center.
And what do you do? He said, I'm the baker. Shimizu
was commissioned by the emperor who had set up all
this
hatred between the Gormanians, the Chemurans,
and also the Chemurans from Saipan. He had free run
there, but his name was Shimizu. So he said, did you
ever stop things like cut your throat? So this
Japanese says, yes, I did, and he bowed. Well, they
asked a lot of other questions, and I had some
Gonzukas. The Gonzukas were Korean prisoners
from the Japanese. It was Japanese that made them
work, and they called them Gonzukas. So we had some
of them lined up there, and we had tags on them. So
Colonel Payton asked me, he says, what does that
mean? I said, well, he's a metalsmith. He's a this,
he's a that, he's the other. So...
So
I said, and the pigs, they age.
So they went and asked questions here, there, and
everywhere. And then they finally went up on the
hill and said, what are those two little chick
sails you got up there? I said, those I got two
guys eating one of the cannibals. I says, uh, well,
he said, we'd like to go up there. I said, for what?
He said, well, I saw the entourage. I went on up
there with them. And, uh, one of these naval
officers, a naval officer was there, off Admiral
Limited's staff. He wanted to see what they looked
like. So he tapped on there, and the sergeant says,
he's indisposed right now. So he wanted to know why
he was indisposed. He says, well, he's taking,
moving his bowels in a bucket. Anyhow, after that,
we brought him out and looked at him anyhow, and
started another one over there on the hill. Well,
why can't you keep them with the other Japs? I said,
well, that's the only hatred in here. I said, well,
I put that Jap loose down here, he'll be dead in five
minutes. So anyhow... The people of Guam hated
him. Huh? So the people of Guam... Yeah, they'd
beat the hell out of them. They'd beat them and
raped them and everything else while they were
there. So the people of Guam hated him. Oh, yeah,
they were really mean to him. Anyhow, the... So
the next day, I get a report from my commanding
general to come see him, and I got my jeep and I went
up to see what it was all about, and he asked me, he
said, you did your parade to prisoners last night.
I said, I did, sir. He says, anything happen? I
said, nothing that unusual. He says, well,
this... psychological warfare officer from the
University of Chicago up there on Nimitz and Stamp
read in hell about that that you permitted a lot of
unusual things to happen in that stockade last
night. And a lot of things went on. A lot of people
said things. I said, sir, if there were anything on
the other line, I never heard it. If I'd have said
what Pete said, Pete never would have been
accommodating Marine Corps. But anyhow, So he
picked up the telephone and called them into the
headquarters in my presence and said, this island
is not big enough for that psychological warfare
guy you got up there, and I want him off this island
by noon today. Those are orders. And he was gone.
That's General Lawson. His father-in-law was
governor of Colorado, and his brother-in-law was
governor of Colorado. All right, we're down to...
But tell me one last thing before we leave the
Japanese. Well, hell, I got a picture to show you.
It'll come out of your ass. Well, tell me, how did
the Americans treat the prisoners? Well, they
were not contact. We didn't have them around them.
Only time when they went up in working parties.
They didn't shoot. They... You know, the Japanese
treated the American prisoners really poorly.
Oh, of course they did. I was wondering if we
treated the Japanese prisoners real poorly. Oh,
no. Uh-uh. No. Why not? Because it wasn't the right
thing to do. It wasn't the right thing to do. Why,
uh...
I'll give you this picture. That is Lieutenant
Colonel. What year was this? It's on the list
there.
Self-explanatory. Put it on the back there, Tent
12. And I found it. And I gave you a picture.
And later on, you'll get a picture of me as a
general. Of course, you can go up there and look at
it up there. What year was this? This is 1914,
probably?
What? 1911. 1911.
Let's see, what'd I say I was looking for? Pictures
of Japanese prisoners.
Orders and requests.
Charge reports.
Brutality, the Chinese against the Japanese.
1945?
Yeah.
Photos of the Japanese army in China during the
Signed on Japanese war in 1937. Oh yeah, this is
incredible. These pictures are too horrible for
publication.
If you wish to reproduce these pictures or use them
for propaganda purposes in the division, they
should prove very useful in rousing the wrath of
any right-minded young American against such
barbaric actions. However, I would prefer not to
have my name associated with them in any way. When
you have made whatever slides or copies you may
need for your purposes, please give back the
originals to Mrs. Price. Charles F.B. Price. He
was my general. He was your general? Of the Samoan
Defense Force after General Austin left. There's
some of the pictures we had, but we did get these
pictures and get them out to the troops. You
understand that? Oh, you did. You're damn right we
did. to show the brutality of the Japanese.
I don't think you want that, maybe you do, maybe you
don't. These are incredible. If you want them, you
can take them and reproduce them and send them
back. Maybe you don't want
them. But those are all the things I had to do. Yeah.
Give me that, put that down. Those are all the
things they charged me with. You understand?
Sure. G2 people and all like that. If I say you could
sit in and talk, you'd say, well, you could just be
blowing smoke up your ass. It's been passed.
You're 87 and a half years old. You're ready to meet
the maker. What the hell are you? You know? That's
the brutality of the Japanese. And so you'd give
those pictures... We had them produced and passed
around into divisions. And another reason why...
The Marines didn't want to have taken Jap
prisoners because in Guadalcanal,
when we made a reconnaissance in force, I wasn't
there, but Frank Getchie, who was a great football
player, he was in charge of this reconnaissance in
force. And they underestimated the amount of
resistance they'd get. And 22 of those people were
wiped out, or maybe 40. And when the Marines went
there to find him, the Japanese had cut the penises
off of every Marine and stuck it in his mouth. And
after the Marines knew that and heard that, they
wouldn't take any Japanese prisoners. So we had a
hard time prevailing on Marines to bring in
prisoners for intelligence service. That's
true. That was at Guadalcanal? That was at
Guadalcanal. I lost a lot of friends there.
You were speaking about race a minute. Cut it off
now. Tell me, when was this written? Do you
remember? 1941, I imagine. Where were you when it
was written? Camp Elliot under General Vogel.
Okay, 1941. And it hired me to hang it tight in the
eye. They knew I did that.
And who did you write it to? I wrote that to the Chief
of Naval Operations.
You've got the reply back. Okay, the reply's on the
other side then. Said we wasn't sacrosanct. That
means we had to, you know, fall in line. So what they
did, they organized a lot of battalions and set
them in the back areas. Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
But see, that's where your lawyer comes in and your
civilian comes in in your service. He wouldn't
dare ask a regular officer to do that. Of course, I
never was treated as a reserve officer because I'd
been a regular officer. You understand?
So what has happened? You get Marcia Diane coming
to this country and telling us you've got too many
blacks in the service because they're mentally
not mentally qualified.
What do you think about that? I'm with him 100%.
We've had some good black Marines. And I was
sitting, they asked me... You can put this on tape.
Put it on tape. I just turned it on right now. I was
asked by a board at Camp Pendleton after the war
what I felt about black personnel. And I said this,
if we can train them properly... and they can hit
the beach and bury the breast of the battle and die
along with us, I'm for them 100%. But I don't
believe in giving them anything on account of
their color. Cut it. Cut this. You can edit any of
this stuff off when I give you the transcript. All
right. So let's just keep it on. Okay. You getting
tired? No. All right. Let me see. Brutality of the
Japs. I showed you that. And how, what the
Americans, what did your friends and colleagues
think? What did they think about having these
prisoner of wars? And what did they think about, I
mean, how did they treat them? The troops were
never contacted. The only people contacted were
the Marine guards, the Marines. How did the guards
treat the prisoners? They treated them fairly.
There was always an interpreter or a Marine who
could speak Japanese with them. They didn't try to
abuse anybody. The only abuse among Japanese was
among themselves.
You mean they abused each other? Yes. In what way?
Well, they'd fight. They'd fight with each other?
Sure, every now and then, but very seldom, very
seldom. We had no trouble. We had no problem. And
they got 1,200 calories a day? Those who worked got
over that, 1,400 calories. Those who didn't work
got less than 1,100 calories. There were very few
of them that didn't work. The only ones that didn't
work was that stockade out there with those
officers. Why didn't they work? Because I was mad
because I had to finish a guard out there. Why
didn't they want to work? Well, because they
didn't have to. They were officers.
And we couldn't pay the prisoners like we were
supposed to because there were too many of them.
There wasn't a lot of them. Before prisoners were
3,000. Now you had 30,000 or more. That's when it
swelled when we took the garrison from Rota. Those
people had been over there eating frogs and
lizards and rats and everything else. We brought
them over to Ireland, and we cleaned them all up,
kept them there 15 to 20 days, and then sent them
back to Japan. Gave them medical? You mean sent
them back to Japan after the war? Yeah. Gave them
medical? Yeah.
And was the next job... And what was the next job?
I'm trying to tell you. You wanted to see some of the
Japanese. Has we got them in? Yeah.
Were they real skinny and beat up? Hell no. I got a
joke to tell on myself, too. Okay, tell me. On top of
the...
Uh...
Well, I had headquarters call it Frog Roost.
Pacific cemeteries, you don't see that.
And up on, overlooking the Ganya Harbor. Mm-hmm.
And I lived there with a fellow named Jim Lane, who
was personnel down in the island command. And it
was just a tent up on coconut logs with a floor in it.
And the Navy stole the icebox and gave it to me for a
favor. So in
cleaning out during the assault phase, there were
a lot of Japs tunneled up in these places and they
thought they'd kill them all with the
flamethrowers. But there were two of them still
living. And I lived on top of them there for over
eight months. And you didn't know they were living
down there? I didn't know they were living under
me. And we had a little old
monkey shower there. We've got some pipe and we've
got a little water and we had a shower and we built a
little bib on the front of our tent And that's where
we'd take a shower. So he was living off this water
we'd take a shower with. So they liked to hurrah the
hell out of me about that because we found him down
on... And one day I hung up my utilities and I missed
him. Well, I thought maybe the wind blew him away.
But the Jap got him and he was down there on a dump at
the officer's mess prowling around with his
marine clothes on. And I never liked to live that
down either, but they had my name in them. Oh,
really? Son of a bitch. He stole your clothes and
went down to the garbage dump? That's right. My
name was in the back of them, right back in here. Was
he wearing colonel patches? Was he wearing
colonel insignias? Yeah, no, no, he wasn't
wearing that. So they teased you about that, I bet.
Oh, God, yes. Good day. We read the combat
citation. I just wanted to show you a few pictures.
Yellow leader. Promotions.
Brutality of the Japs.
That's the song I got when I was in second year of
university and I composed that. We circulated
that around.
See, you can have that. That's when I was first
lieutenant on 21st Company.
See, I'm looking for... That
picture, that's some of the Japanese prisoners.
You see that woman in that room?
This
little one right here? Yeah. Where was this? Mark?
Mark on it.
Why was she in there? Damn, she was on a troop boat.
They said she's only true to one. She's true to...
She only serves one Jap and that she's true to him.
That's what they said. and give a damn.
Well, these prisoners are really well-dressed.
They look really healthy. You don't want to see
these B-29 pictures because I had to do that only.
They were all my friends out there. A lot of Aggies
out there. Did you have a lot of Aggies on Guam? Oh,
yeah, I showed you. Yeah, you showed me them. I gave
you one. You got all those damn people? You got it?
to Admiral Nimitz? Did I? Sure did. I had a personal
letter from him. Really? Will you tell me about it?
When he dropped back to Pearl, he had me come up and
thank him. He thanked me personally, but he told me
then that the Code of Military Justice wasn't
going to work, that the old code we had, rules for
the government of the Navy, did work all through
the years, what we call rocks and shoals. And he
said the brig was going to be filled up with people.
Now, I'm licensed to practice for the Court of
Military Appeals over there. See it over there?
But that's the most useless damn thing in the world
because you can't have office hours without a damn
lawyer being there. Now, I'm a lawyer myself. Why I
have to stand there and worry about a bachelor who
needs five days of bread and water with a full
ration on the third day when that's all he could do
and get it. You understand what you can't do that,
but I'm a lawyer. So if the Admiral Nimitz is right,
the brig's awful. What have you had? Look how many
desertions you've had in all the services. How
many BCDs? How many of this, that, and the other?
When you start with that discipline in the squad,
the corporals say to you, all right, Anderson, you
don't go ashore this weekend. You leave your
liberty card in the rack. And old Anderson goes to
think, what did I do? What did I do? And he knows what
he did. And you don't have any problem with
Anderson. Then another guy comes up and he does
something, and he gives him some EPD, vector
police duty to the sergeant there, or the
corporal. That straightens him out. That stops
him there. Or if he goes up to the platoon
commander, he'll give him something that's out on
his record. And he'll discipline then. They were
founded on that through the years aboard ship
every place, see? And then when it went up to the
company commander, he'd shake you around. And
then if you had a court martial when it went up to the
battalion commander, he might find some
extenuating circumstances and he'll cut your
sentence down and it gets up to the division, he'd
cut it down. And when it finally gets to the JAG
office, This cut down, that's the court of justice
we've been operating through the years, not
having a goddamn lawyer sitting
there. I had to go out and be a witness out at the Army
or at Guam. I thought I was in the courthouse down in
Houston, all the damn lawyers. I said, you son of a
bitch, why haven't you got a rifle or something?
Why aren't you out fighting? The war is not over
yet. Oh, I'm a legal officer, legal. Well, what did
you think of Nimitz? He was a great admiral. Great
man. Did you ever meet Bull Halsey? Yes, I met Bull
Halsey. And what did you think of him? He was a great
fighting man, too. Forward man. He wasn't as
reserved as Admiral Nimitz was, but he was a good
fighting man. In fact, Admiral Halsey gave me the
order to prosecute people in Samoa. Anybody.